DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Deployment Guide

This document explains how to build the optimized RAGify container image and deploy it to Google Cloud Run. The flow mirrors the simple CRUD sample you provided, but is tailored to this repository.

## Prerequisites

- Docker (for local image builds/test runs)
- Google Cloud CLI (`gcloud`) authenticated against your project
- A Google Cloud project with billing enabled

Environment variables used during deployment:

| Variable | Purpose | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `PROJECT_ID` | Google Cloud project to use | active gcloud config |
| `IMAGE_NAME` | Container image name (without registry) | `ragify` |
| `SERVICE_NAME` | Cloud Run service name | `ragify` |
| `REGION` | Cloud Run region | `us-central1` |
| `CLOUD_RUN_PORT` | Container port exposed to Cloud Run | `8000` |
| `CLOUD_RUN_MEMORY` | Cloud Run memory limit | `2Gi` |
| `CLOUD_RUN_CPU` | Cloud Run CPU allocation | `1` |
| `CLOUD_RUN_ENV_VARS` | Comma-separated env vars passed to the service | Reads from `.env` if unset |
| `BASE_IMAGE_NAME` | Name of the heavy dependency base image | `ragify-backend-base` |
| `BUILD_BASE_IMAGE` | `auto`, `always`, or `never` for rebuilding the base | `auto` |

### Base Image Workflow

The heavy Python/ML stack lives in `docker/backend-base.Dockerfile`. Building it separately keeps the app image slim:

- Locally, `startupdocker.sh` (and `run_local_stack.sh`) build `ragify-backend-base:latest` only when it is missing.
- During deployment, `./build.sh` publishes `gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/$BASE_IMAGE_NAME:latest` (once per change) before building the small application image that layers on top.
- Override `BASE_IMAGE_NAME`, `BASE_IMAGE_URI`, or set `BUILD_BASE_IMAGE=never` if you already have a published base image you want to reuse.

Add any runtime-specific secrets (e.g., `DATABASE_URL`, `REDIS_URL`, `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`, `SECRET_KEY`) by extending `CLOUD_RUN_ENV_VARS`.

## Local Build & Test

```bash
# Build the multi-stage image
docker build -t ragify-local .

# Run it locally
docker run --rm -p 8000:8000 \
  -e DATABASE_URL="postgresql+asyncpg://..." \
  -e REDIS_URL="redis://..." \
  -e OPENROUTER_API_KEY="..." \
  ragify-local
```

The container serves the FastAPI backend and (when `SERVE_FRONTEND_BUILD=true`) the static frontend bundle under `/`.

## Deploy to Cloud Run

`build.sh` automates Cloud Build submission and Cloud Run deployment. It automatically loads key/value pairs from `.env` (or `ENV_FILE=path/to/file`) when `CLOUD_RUN_ENV_VARS` is not explicitly supplied. Those variables are written to a temporary JSON map and passed to `gcloud run deploy --env-vars-file`, so URLs and other values do not need manual escaping. The script also ensures the base image exists before building the lighter application layer:

```bash
PROJECT_ID=my-project \
REGION=us-central1 \
./build.sh
```

What the script does:

1. Verifies `gcloud` availability and authentication.
2. Ensures `cloudbuild.googleapis.com` and `run.googleapis.com` are enabled.
3. Builds/pushes the dependency base image (unless `BUILD_BASE_IMAGE=never` or it already exists).
4. Builds the final Docker image with `gcloud builds submit --build-arg BASE_IMAGE=...` so only app layers change.
5. Deploys to Cloud Run with the environment variables pulled from `.env`.
6. Prints the public service URL plus health & status endpoints for quick validation.

## Verification Checklist

- `curl https://SERVICE_URL/health` returns `{"status": "ok", ...}`.
- `curl https://SERVICE_URL/api/status` includes `"frontend": "https://SERVICE_URL"`.
- Visiting `https://SERVICE_URL/` loads the bundled UI when `SERVE_FRONTEND_BUILD=true`.
- Logs (`gcloud run logs read --service SERVICE_NAME --region REGION`) show background tasks starting without errors.

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for SQLite default deployment
- Switch README.md to emphasize SQLite as the default database for local and Cloud Run deployments
- Update DEPLOYMENT.md to reflect single-container SQLite setup, removing PostgreSQL/Redis dependencies
- Simplify docs/setup.md to prioritize SQLite setup with PostgreSQL as optional

BREAKING CHANGE: Default database changed from PostgreSQL to SQLite; users relying on PostgreSQL must now explicitly configure DATABASE_URL

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Deployment Guide

This document explains how to build the optimized RAGify container image and deploy it to Google Cloud Run. The flow mirrors the simple CRUD sample you provided, but is tailored to this repository.

## Prerequisites

- Docker (for local image builds/test runs)
- Google Cloud CLI (`gcloud`) authenticated against your project
- A Google Cloud project with billing enabled

Environment variables used during deployment:

| Variable | Purpose | Default |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `PROJECT_ID` | Google Cloud project to use | active gcloud config |
| `IMAGE_NAME` | Container image name (without registry) | `ragify` |
| `SERVICE_NAME` | Cloud Run service name | `ragify` |
| `REGION` | Cloud Run region | `us-central1` |
| `CLOUD_RUN_PORT` | Container port exposed to Cloud Run | `8000` |
| `CLOUD_RUN_MEMORY` | Cloud Run memory limit | `2Gi` |
| `CLOUD_RUN_CPU` | Cloud Run CPU allocation | `1` |
| `ENV_FILE` | Path to `.env` used for deployment overrides | `./.env` |
| `SQLITE_DB_PATH` | Path (inside container) for the SQLite db file | `/tmp/ragify.db` |
| `BASE_IMAGE_NAME` | Name of the heavy dependency base image | `ragify-backend-base` |
| `BUILD_BASE_IMAGE` | `auto`, `always`, or `never` for rebuilding the base | `auto` |

### Base Image Workflow

The heavy Python/ML stack lives in `docker/backend-base.Dockerfile`. Building it separately keeps the app image slim:

- Locally, `startupdocker.sh` (and `run_local_stack.sh`) build `ragify-backend-base:latest` only when it is missing.
- During deployment, `./build.sh` publishes `gcr.io/$PROJECT_ID/$BASE_IMAGE_NAME:latest` (once per change) before building the small application image that layers on top.
- Override `BASE_IMAGE_NAME`, `BASE_IMAGE_URI`, or set `BUILD_BASE_IMAGE=never` if you already have a published base image you want to reuse.

Add any runtime-specific secrets (e.g., `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`, `SECRET_KEY`) to `.env` or set `ENV_FILE=path/to/file`. `build.sh` reads that file, merges overrides, and writes a temporary Cloud Run–friendly env YAML before deployment. The script automatically forces `DATABASE_URL=sqlite+aiosqlite:///...` and clears `REDIS_URL` so the single container remains dependency-free.

## Local Build & Test

```bash
# Build the multi-stage image
docker build -t ragify-local .

# Run it locally
docker run --rm -p 8000:8000 \
  -e DATABASE_URL="postgresql+asyncpg://..." \
  -e REDIS_URL="redis://..." \
  -e OPENROUTER_API_KEY="..." \
  ragify-local
```

The container serves the FastAPI backend and (when `SERVE_FRONTEND_BUILD=true`) the static frontend bundle under `/`.

## Deploy to Cloud Run

`build.sh` automates Cloud Build submission and Cloud Run deployment. It loads environment variables from `.env` (or `ENV_FILE=...`), rewrites `DATABASE_URL` to the Cloud Run–safe SQLite path, clears Redis, and then deploys a **single** container. No sidecars, stateful services, or manual `env-vars-file` juggling required:

```bash
PROJECT_ID=my-project \
REGION=us-central1 \
./build.sh
```

What the script does:

1. Verifies `gcloud` availability and authentication.
2. Ensures `cloudbuild.googleapis.com` and `run.googleapis.com` are enabled.
3. Builds/pushes the dependency base image (unless `BUILD_BASE_IMAGE=never` or it already exists).
4. Builds the final Docker image with `gcloud builds submit --build-arg BASE_IMAGE=...` so only app layers change.
5. Generates a temporary env file with the merged/overridden variables.
6. Deploys the container to Cloud Run (Gen2) with `sqlite+aiosqlite:///tmp/ragify.db` and `SERVE_FRONTEND_BUILD=true`.
7. Prints the public service URL plus health & status endpoints for quick validation.

## Verification Checklist

- `curl https://SERVICE_URL/health` returns `{"status": "ok", ...}`.
- `curl https://SERVICE_URL/api/status` includes `"frontend": "https://SERVICE_URL"`.
- Visiting `https://SERVICE_URL/` loads the bundled UI when `SERVE_FRONTEND_BUILD=true`.
- Logs (`gcloud run logs read --service SERVICE_NAME --region REGION`) show background tasks starting without errors.
